=head1 NAME 

INSTALL - Smokeping Setup Instructions

=head1 SYNOPSIS

The purpose of Smokeping is to figure out performance data. It does this be
running specialized probe module. Smokeping makes its findings available
over a REST API. A custome plugin for extopus allows to visualize the
smokeping data in a modern webinterface.

This document describes how to install and test the Smokeping system.

=head1 INSTALLATION

Smokeping is written in perl. It requires a current version of perl as well as a
few special perl modules to be able to work.

=head2 Unpacking Smokeping

First you have to decide on a location where you want to install Smokeping. Save
your choice into an environment variable as the rest of these instructions
will revere them.

 export PREFIX=/opt/smokeping

Unpack the distribution somewere other than your installation target and run configure.

 cd /tmp
 tar xf smokeping-3.0.tar.gz 
 cd smokeping-3.0
 ./configure --prefix=$PREFIX

Configure will not be happy, as it will probably miss many of the required
thirdparty packages. So the next step is to get them in place.

 cd setup
 ./build-thirdparty.sh $PREFIX/thirdparty

Note that this build script does NOT build rrdtool and its perl libraries.
You can use install the rrdtool perl bindings from your OS package system,
or you can run the setup scripts from
L<SDBC|https://github.oetiker.ch/oetiker/sdbc> repository.

With the dependencies in place, you can now attempt to run configure for the second time

 cd /tmp/smokeping-3.0
 ./configure --prefix=$PREFIX
 make install

=head2 Web setup

For performance reasons the web api runs as a fastcgi client. There is a sample
fcgi file in the $PREFIX/htdocs directory. Place it in a suitable location
on your webserver. And configure apache appropriately. Eg.

 # fcgid resource management
 AddHandler fcgid-script     .fcgi

For security reasons it would be sensible to configure Apache with suexec
support so that the cgis do NOT run with the same user as the web server
itself. This requires the fcgi script to be physically located in
F</var/www> or below.

Setup the following .htaccess file to be able to invoce the script
directly from the website root

 RewriteEngine On
 RewriteBase /
 RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-f
 RewriteRule (.*) smokeping.fcgi/$1 [L]

=head1 CONFIGURATION

The Smokeping system configuration is located in F<$PREFIX/etc/smokeping.cfg>.

There is a sample configuration file in F<$PREFIX/etc/smokeping.cfg.dist>

=head1 TESTING

Since F<smokeping.pl probe> modifies data while it operates, you can use the

  smokeping.pl probe --noaction --verbose

start up switch run it without damaging files or data in the database
and see an on-line account of what is happening.

=head1 PRODUCTION USE

To put Smokeping into production, make sure the probe daemon gets launched
when the system starts.

Also make sure you keep an eye (nagios ?) on the logfile (as configured in
the config file), since it will report any error that occurs. On top of that
errors will also be printed to STDERR which should trigger a mail from
crond.

=head1 HISTORY

 2013-09-04 to Initial Version

=head1 AUTHOR

Tobi Oetiker E<lt>tobi@oetiker.chE<gt>

=cut

# pod2text -l INSTALL.pod  >../../README.txt

# Emacs Configuration
#
# Local Variables:
# mode: cperl
# eval: (cperl-set-style "PerlStyle")
# mode: flyspell
# mode: flyspell-prog
# End:
#
